

When you are ready to play, click Start New Round

First step, select the course.

It will find the closest courses to you.

If multiple courses are available at that location (Paiute, Whirlwind, Talking Stick etc) choose the course you are playing.
The course data is used for getting the par information, which is used for Par 3 specific 'Dots'  (Greenies) as well as handicapping if enabled (by default)

Starting hole defaults to 1, but sometimes courses have you start on 10, or for a shotgun start, any random hole.  You set that here.

Wager per dot defaults at $1.  High rollers might go $5 (it could get expensive!)

Use Handicap will allow you to add parity to 'Low Hole' winners.  More on that in a momument.

Maximum owed keeps the bets from getting out of hand (No one wants to pay out $100 to their buddies if they are having a bad round)

Debts are then scaled proportionally when the cap is hit.

Player Setup.

The first time you use the app, the default player 1 will be 'Me".
Click on Me and choose your Contact card.  This will be persistent.

Under Add Players, you will see Favorites, Contacts, and Manual entry

Initially you will have no favorites.

Go to contacts, and search for your golfing buddies. Click Star to favorite, then plus to add.
They will then show up in your favorites going forward.

Choose your players, and click Add Selected.

For handicap play, adjust the HCP next to each player.
In this example, Jeffrey gets 1 stoke on the 15 hardest holes, Jim on the 20, Benoit on the 5, and Victor on the 10.
These will normalize the scores for low hole (see during the first hole screen)

The last setup is the scoring tasks.  To see the defaults, add / remove dots, and save / load presets, click Edit Scoring Tasks.

In this example, Fairways and Poleys are worth 1 dot.  Birdies are worth 3.  Greenies are 2, Exclusive (only 1 person can win), and Carry over if not claimed.

Similarly, Low hole is 2 dots, exclusive, and carry over.  you can change to not carry over if you chose.

Penalties are similar, if you have a penalty, the other players get dots.  By default, OB / Sand / 3 putt are 1 dot for the others, 4-putt or Lady's Tee is 3.
All of these are configurable.  Once you have the scoring tasks setup as you like for your game, you can save the Preset.

Next round, you just have to load the presets.   This is good for different groups you play with.
Some of my friends only want 1 dot for low hole, no sand penalties. Others want to add 'Long Drive, 5 dots per hole.
This provides you flexibility while minimizing future game setup

All set, ready to start!  Hit Create

From here, you can send the link to each player (each player can have PapaDot running, only 1 person can be host.)

If you aren't the host, when you start PapaDot, click Join Game.  Enter the code you received.


you will see a Waiting Room as players join before the host starts the game.

When everyone has joined, the host hits Start Round.

Scoring.

Here is the scoring screen.

Simply click a dot for each task some one has.
In this case, Jeffrey and Victor hit the fairway, Benoit went OB twice, and Jim 3 putted.

The key here before you hit Next, is to adjust the scores.   In this case Jeffrey had a 5, Jim had a 4, Benoit had a 6, and Victor had a 4.
But because we are playing Handicap, Jim's 4 is actually a Net 3, so Jim wins low hole.
There is a scoreboard on top that shows total dots on top, and dots earned that hole (without low hole as that hasn't been calculated until Next)

The hit Next.  Continue scoring each hole

The Stats Tab shows the totals per Dot.

When you are done with 18, hit Finish.

You will see Who won, total dots per person and per task.

Click Payouts.

This will show who owes who what.   As we played this round with Caps, the dollars owed are distributed proportionally. In this case, Benoit only has to pay out $20 vs $$69.

From here you can Share Results via Messages, go back to Hole 18 if you need to edit scores, or start a new round.

From the main screen, you can also see History of all games.  You have the abiliity to delete rounds if you want. 

Happy dotting!

##Exclude for now##

Settings, iCloud, Drive, Sync this iPhone